Exposition and the potential of public space

This week’s readings discuss the kinds of academic persona visible
through presence on the web. One observation I found interesting is that
when using different platforms such as personal blogs or twitter, the
relationship between the research field and personal interventions are
in constant consideration and negotiation. Along with the decision of
engaging in these “new forms” of exposure, “an academic persona is in
practice and making.” However, I couldn’t avoid thinking that this
process is already happening on an ongoing basis in graduate school and
“academics.” I think this distinction of the persona that shows up on
the web and the persona that was already developing in papers or
doctoral exams is problematic, and that it is relevant to consider how
web presence impacts this formation and practice. Maybe the direction of
this is in relation to becoming aware that an academic with more
sophisticated media tools can become a “public persona” in a more
political sense. This raises the question of why academics need a public
persona, or perhaps why not. How does this category serve us in practice
and in theory? The readings develop the importance of persona in
relation to the job market and the need for networking in order to make
your work visible, or simply to stay engaged in you work. In this sense,
this persona is useful because it allows a continuing questioning of the
field of study.

Along these lines, Tryon argues that blogging is a practice of mediation
from scholarship to work production in a public domain. In this sense,
it is a practice that brings in to consideration new ideas about the
standards of good scholarship. I read this in two ways. First, the
technology inherent in the corpus we study and its related practices
deeply impact the way we question and form our research. In this sense,
we already have a public persona before engaging with tools and media
that expose us to the public. Second, the way we may perceive the future
of our research agendas and the time we put in to creating the public
persona is almost in inevitable conflict not only with the media we use
to reveal it, but also the time that we put in to thinking about the
issues we study. It is thus very revealing that the issues of standards
of academic value are embedded in particular forms of technology. For
example, Tryon explains the connection between the standards of
scholarship and time in the following passage.

> One of the challenges of defining how blogs fit within current
> perceptions of scholarly publishing has been the perception that the
> ability to publish material immediately leads to the production of
> unreflective, spontaneous material that does not reflect thought or
> analysis. (blog page)

Tryon’s argument presents a paradigm shift from writing for accepted
academic audiences toward writing for broader publics and impacts in
terms of a different way to treat the academic sphere. I think he
intends to argue that the writing in blogs represents a shift that would
make it possible for the scholar to see her work not as an immutable
institution of the state, but also as an institution or entity entangled
in a process of knowledge production that is unstable and emotional.
This reminds me of the observation that producing knowledge also
contains “affect” suggests the necessity to see the subjectivity of the
people who work within the logic of the academia. The presence of the
public as an entity brings into the discussion the needed practice of
making a persona not restricted by a scholarship agenda. But does this
then mean that if a scholar who does not engage in the public domain has
a necessarily restricted persona? I think this position is problematic,
as the idea of “public” is not only determined by web presence, but also
has an interactional aspect that requires other kinds of physical and
social interactions. It will be helpful then to expand this discussion
into a reflection on the way scholars engage in physical interactions
with the public or with other scholars.
